We've talked about how once a thread is identified,
then threat scenarios, models,
and profiles can be built to better understand and assess the threat.
To provide an example,
we're going to walk through how to create a threat profile.
While there are many approaches to doing this,
standard frameworks are a common starting point in companies.
MITRE Cyber Prep Framework is an example
that focuses on three key traits for threat profiling.
The intention of the threat actor,
the target, and the capability.
Intent considers questions like,
what's the ultimate goal of the threat actor and
what is the consequence that will result if they are successful?
This also considers the time-frame.
Do they intend to come in very quickly, do damage and leave?
Or are they operating in stealth or persistent mode?
Which means they're in it for the long call.
They are trying to stick around your environment and
learn quietly over time before striking.
This timing is important to consider.
If you think about a major bank heist, for example,
the mastermind may spend months or years planning the attacks,
learning where the cameras are,
knowing who will be on staff and what their weaknesses
are before actually conducting the robbery.
The same is the case in cyber-security.
An attacker can sit quietly in a network for years without being
detected as they plan a major attack or steal things slowly.
The next part is to understand the target of the attack.
Is it a certain system,
network, product, or a person?
Also note, that an organization can be attacked as
a stepping stone in an attack on one of its partners or customers.
Businesses also have to take into
consideration whether they are actually the intended target.
These are things that threat intelligence and research
on threat actors can help you understand.
Finally, you need to know what the threat actor's capabilities are.
What resources and methods do they have available to carry out an attack?
If a threat actor has all of these big intentions and dreams of attacks,
but you find it's a teen operating as a script kiddie on a college budget,
it's not to say they couldn't get funding from somewhere or be successful.
But you may consider the threat differently than you would a government backed
nation state actor with a multi-million dollar budget
and an army of attackers available to carry out on their mission.
During this section, you can explore and document
what attack patterns and methods the attacker has typically use as well.
Another free resource from MITRE I recommend you explore
is the group section tied to the MITRE attack framework.
We'll walk through that framework in greater detail later.
But in that group section,
they aggregate tons of intelligence information on known threat actors,
including what their goals and motivations are,
their typical attack methods and more and you can
use this information to add to your threat profile.